Issue 25352 dryrun testing section (#25507)
backstage/backstage: docs/plugins/dry-run-testing.md

Reviewer: I think this makes more sense to live in this folder: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/docs/features/software-templates. I think it will get missed where you currently have it.

Author: Sure, should I add it as a new section under software templates like https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/dry-run-testing-templates? Or did you have somewhere else in mind?

Reviewer: Yes, exactly!

---
id: dry run testing
title: Dry Run Testing

> description: Documentation on how to enable and implement dry run testing in actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to enable and implement dry run testing in actions
```

---

Scaffolder templates can be tested using the dry run feature of scaffolder actions. This allows you to simulate the effects of running a scaffolder action without making any actual changes to your environment, for example creating a webhook in Github. Once dry run is enabled in the scaffolder action, you can add handling to actions you use in your scaffolder templates to define how an action should operate in a dry run scenario.

## Enabling dry run testing

> To enable dry run for your scaffolder action you need to add 'supportsDryRun: true' to the configuration object of 'createTemplateAction' in the function where the behavior of your action is defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable dry run for your scaffolder action you need to add `supportsDryRun: true` to the configuration object of `createTemplateAction` in the function where the behavior of your action is defined:
```

```typescript
export function exampleAction() {
  return createTemplateAction<{
    example: string;
  }>({
    id: 'action:example',
    description: 'Example action',
    schema: {
      input: {
        type: 'object',
        properties: {
          example: {
            title: 'example',
            type: 'string',
          },
        },
      },
    },
    supportsDryRun: true,
    async handler(ctx) {
      ...
    },
  });
}
```

## Adding handling for dry run

> To add handling for dry run functionality you need to add a check for 'ctx.isDryRun' inside the handler of the configuration object which is being passed into 'createTemplateAction' in the function where the behavior of your action is defined. Once the check is successful, you can perform the desired actions expected in a dry run, e.g. outputting non-sensitive inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add handling for dry run functionality you need to add a check for `ctx.isDryRun` inside the handler of the configuration object which is being passed into `createTemplateAction` in the function where the behavior of your action is defined. Once the check is successful, you can perform the desired actions expected in a dry run, e.g. outputting non-sensitive inputs.
```

```typescript
async handler(ctx) {
      ...

      // If this is a dry run, log and return
      if (ctx.isDryRun) {
        ctx.logger.info(`Dry run complete`);
        return;
      }

      ...
    },
```

## Testing dry run handling

You will also need to add tests for the dry run handling, for example:

```typescript
  it('should not perform action during dry run', async () => {
    ...

    // Create the context object with the necessary properties for a dry run
    const ctx = {
      ...mockContext,
      isDryRun: true,
      input: {
        ...
      },
    };

    // Call the handler with the context
    await action.handler(ctx);

    expect(...);
  });
```

## Dry run via API call

Dry run can be performed using the dry-run API, which allows the dry run to be completed in code.
This [command line script](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/contrib/scaffolder/template-testing-dry-run.md) offers a way for you to do work with dry-run API. You run it against a running instance, either locally or remote, and use it like:

```bash
scaffolder-dry http://localhost:7007/ template-directory values.yml output-directory
```

> If you're using backend permissions, pass a front-end auth token from a current browser session via --token $FRONTEND_TOKEN.

Reviewer: As of 1.24.0 the Backstage APIs are "secure by default" so we should change this indicated it's mandatory. I'm not sure exactly what we should put here though. 

@benjdlambert whats' your thoughts on this?

Author: Just FYI I copied that section from here: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/contrib/scaffolder to try consolidate information on dry running, I could remove this section, or could make any changes to the original document also. Just so I'm clear, what exactly are the suggested changes here?

Reviewer: Yeah, I noticed that after the fact. The token is potentially wrong there too. Let's wait to hear what Ben thinks when he's back form vacation. 👍

You can also query the dry run endpoint in code, for example:

`dry-run.js`

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript title="dry-run.js"
```

Then you can removed what's on line 94

const template = yaml.load(
  await fs.readFile('path/to/templates/template.yaml', 'utf-8'),
);
const values = JSON.parse(
  await fs.readFile('path/to/templates/template_values.json', 'utf-8'),
);

// Prepare the request body
const body = {
  template,
  values,
  directoryContents,
};

// Send the request to the dry-run endpoint
const response = await fetch(
  'http://localhost:7000/api/scaffolder/v2/dry-run',
  {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json',

>       Authorization: 'Bearer <YOUR_API_KEY>', // replace 'YOUR_API_KEY' with your actual API key

Reviewer: There are many API Keys in the Backstage world, we need to be more clear about which one.
